# Node.js i18n WG Meeting 2018-03-06

## Time
UTC Tue 06-March-2018 16:00 (04:00 PM)
[In your local time](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=04PM+UTC,+March+06,+2018+in+local+time)

## Link
[Minutes Google Doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1daZuYpjomqVylkpNJ2TDLa3Gjd-3KvrNpMBkpwxNlOQ)

## Current Members: https://github.com/nodejs/i18n#current-members
- @amiller-gh (Adam Miller)
- @toinane (Antoine Olivier)
- @obensource (Ben Michel)
- @tiriel (Benjamin Zaslavsky)
- @maddhruv (Dhruv Jain)
- @JCMais (Jonathan Cardoso Machado)
- @lukaszewczak (Łukasz Szewczak)
- @rachelnicole (Rachel White)
- @rajzshkr (Raja Sekar)
- @RichardLitt (Richard Littauer)
- @ryo-a (Ryo.A)
- @sotayamashita (Sam Yamashita)
- @srl295 (Steven R. Loomis)
- @tiagoDanin (Tiago Danin)
- @vanessayuenn (Vanessa Yuen)
- @volem (Volkan Nazmi Metin)
- @zeke (Zeke Sikelianos)

## Present Members
- @obensource (Ben Michel)
- @bnb (Tierney Cyren)
- @maddhruv (Dhruv Jain)
- Adam Miller (Adam Miller)
- @zeke  (Zeke Sikelianos)
- @groundwater Jacob Groundwater
- @RichardLitt (Richard Littauer)
- Juande @FranzDeCopenhague
- Steven R. Loomis

## Agenda

### General Logistics
[#34: WG meeting time & Frequency](https://github.com/nodejs/i18n/issues/34)

[#30: Translators for our WG meetings](https://github.com/nodejs/i18n/issues/20)

WG meeting summary issue owner

WG Meeting minutes taker

### Reports
[#36: Initial i18n team meeting with Crowdin](https://github.com/nodejs/i18n/issues/36)

ECMA-402 and Unicode Standards update (ICU, CLDR) - Steven Loomis
ECMA 402 has had more frequent meetings such as https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/blob/master/meetings/agenda-2018-02-16.md  - many new features, lots of cooperation among implementers (including v8 stakeholders). 
ICU 61 / CLDR 33 are finishing up shortly.  Expect an alpha PR 
I found a couple of issues with running Node on older ICUs (including ICUs built into older systems  - https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/19150 and there are others like it.
identify which version of ICU works on node.  ( v59+ ) but should be 58 or even 57.
Intl - https://github.com/nodejs/Intl/issues
Anything else?

### Current Initiatives
[#19: Audit of our l10n groups](https://github.com/nodejs/i18n/issues/19)

Getting our i18n module going & what we can build right now (Outcome: generate an issue)

Crowdin Integration (Outcome: generate an issue)

Notes:
- [#34: WG meeting time & Frequency](https://github.com/nodejs/i18n/issues/34)
	- Move this to the end of the meeting and decide based on what the group assigns itself

- WG meeting summary issue owner
	- This can be done automatically by a tool Michael Dawson created. Tierney will help Ben with getting this set up officially.

- [#30: Translators for our WG meetings](https://github.com/nodejs/i18n/issues/20)
	- We can ping Zeke and Ben about getting in contact with the Electron translators
	- Add an invitation to l10n groups to help translate i18n initiative meetings
	- Translations of these meetings will ideally be verbal translations

- [#36: Initial i18n team meeting with Crowdin](https://github.com/nodejs/i18n/issues/36)
	- Andre gave i18n team an overview of Crowdin and how the i18n team would integrate with the Crowdin services.
	- Zeke shared how Electron does this most effectively.
	- Peer-verified translations are a possibility, may want to use this to help prevent bad actors from inserting poor/negative language
	- Should definitely define how to handle an issue if they occur
	- Zeke shared that the Electron project generally doesn’t limit translators, and oftentimes promotes translators to proofreaders so they can go in and fix translation errors
	- Zeke shared that while the Electron project’s i18n process is almost entirely automated, PRs are still human-merged.
- [#19: Audit of our l10n groups](https://github.com/nodejs/i18n/issues/19)
	- Reaching out to l10n groups
	- Richard has a tool, name-your-contributors, that we can use to help with this
- ECMA-402 & Unicode Standards update (ICU, CLDR)
	- Stephen will be our liaison to ECMA-402, and will be helping us in this area.
- Website Redesign update
	- Adam Miller shared a brief updated about the stats of the update, including that a wireframe has been completed and is currently being iterated upon and that 
	- Zeke asked if the file located on the current [website repo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nodejs/nodejs.org/master/locale/uk/index.md) and asked if it was a good representation of how we currently do i18n
	- Tierney and Adam discussed this, and suggested to share any advice for i18n best practices or ways to make i18n easier down the road may be easier in the nodejs/website-redesign
	- Zeke shared that the Electron community was translating in a similar way to the way that the Node.js community has executed i18n in the past, and that Electron saw a lot of success with dropping the previous translations and picking up + refreshing directly from CrowdIn.
		- Make a public explanation of this, sharing the context including the technical reasoning behind this
- Module Implementation.
	- Should we start working on a module for this now?
	- No reason not to, it seems.
	- Starting small may be a good way to start testing such a module.
	- Starting with meeting minutes and then moving to something like the docs site may be a good first good steps
	- TODO: Tierney will reach out to a TSC member about joining the i18n effort or advising on it, and how we can work with the Docs that live in the nodejs/node repository.
- Next steps:
	- Should we have a private repo?
	- Having a private repo may be prohibitive to including those interested in contributing.
	- Make sure we plan a move from private to public.
	- Zeke: Is there any issue with creating a dedicated bot account to do the i18n PRs, or an existing bot account?
	- Tierney: There shouldn’t be at this point. There are a few accounts that already do this.
- i18n update from Steven:
	- ECMA 402 meetings have been happening, and progress has been made on new features.
	- No ICU matrix for ICU support in Node.js

Internationalization and Unicode Conference (IUC)  CFP closes Friday http://unicodeconference.org (Sept 10-12 Santa Clara), Steven will be co-submitting an ecma402 update talk.
